Welcome back all.
Today were gonna go
ahead and jump into
a chapter that we
all deal with loops
in C++, now in this
chapter we will learn
four different
types of loops: for
while, do-while
and for each. So
we will also learn
another one, the so-called goto loop keep
in mind that I
take this with a grain
of salt, let's put
it like that's, not
exactly a loop but not
exactly a not loop, however you wish to
look at it as I said we will look we
will learn the so-called
goto loop which
can be used for the
simulation off loops.
Now, loops as a general concept is
present in pretty much all programming
languages, they all
pretty much use loops in
order to perform
repetitive tasks, like you
have a chunk of code
which you would
like to be repeated
over a set number of
iterations and therefore you just go and
use a loop in order to make that
possible. So that is
just a concept that
is used widely across
pretty much all
programming languages,
but here I'm gonna
go ahead and show you
how you can use these
various types of loops
in C++ the four
regions also is primarily
for C++ 11 so I'm
just gonna go out
and create a new
project, you might
notice that my taskbar
is gone down below.
Well, I didn't really
need so I just hit it.
Let's hit it down below
it, it should pop
when I touch the bottom
with my mouse but
oh well, anyway console
application this
was by the way complete
irrelevant for the course,
let's go ahead and
click on Next C++ sure
this is going to be
chapter 4 that's how I'm
naming them, you can
name them any way you
like, chapter for loops,
Ok, so next finish,
excellent. One of
these days I'm gonna
fix this I don't think it matters that
much really.
come and zoom it for
me, thank you very
much! So, let's go
ahead and start, let's
begin wit one example
we will write a
program that prompts
the user to input a
number and then asks
the user to input
and numbers in the end
it basically just
how puts the sum of those numbers so
might seem a little bit confusing when I
put it like this, but
you will see it is
extremely simple, so
just go ahead and
include iostream so input output iostream the
library here, and that's it
int, main and go down below int 10,
this will be our integer variable that
will hold the number
that the user enters as
input. Ok should use from
the std namespace, cout
and enter and no need
for the next line,
we wanted to all to
be in the same line
see we have a semicolon
and then a space
and then we'll be able
to enter a number
and down below std
colon colon, cin, n,
semicolon, hopefully
by now you know what
these are, the operators, anyway
semicolon here and in here, that's gonna we have
instructed user
we've instructed the
user here, your we've
told the user basically:
Hey do that. So
we've told user here
to enter a number
n or just enter n and down below
enter, int, n, let's
put it like this, so
the user knows it's an integer.
Here she
needs to put, anyway and down below we
have provided a method for the user to
actually be able to input
whatever has been asked
to that user to basically input that
integer. Anyway, we will go ahead and need
to
declare a variable
called some, so 0 here
and we need to initialize
it to 0, so it
must and I mean it must in this case be
initialize to 0 as it can cause some
serious problems if it is not
initialized, it's not the compiler is not
going to report any
problems, however it will
be one of those logic
errors on the users
and you might not get
what you want to get
I will explain why
in the moment when
we actually get to that portion. I'm typing
today is amazing.
Anyway, for this is going to be an
example of a for loop so int I we can
declare another variable here and that
variable holds it has declared for the
scope of the loop, beyond the loop it is
not, no you can literally declare and
I again outside of
the loop without any
problems, however
once declared outside
of the loop then
it's a completely
different matter. So
it's less than or
equal to n an it's going
to be plus plus I. okay
so, our loop it's going to
start from one I stands
for index or iterator
or however you
want to call it, you
don't need to use I
you could have used
pretty much any name
any legit variable
name here instead of
I so it's not a big
deal but general
standard practices to use I J K
those three but you can use pretty much
whatever you want it doesn't matter
suited it, you can
get your convenience
let's put it like
that, anyway our for
loop, it starts from
number one so I has
been initialized to
one, we could have
initialized that whatever we wanted to
initialize it really doesn't matter
and then it goes to end I will continue
to increase here until this condition is
satisfied. So for
as long as I is
lesser or equal to
end, this here will
evaluate to true and there for whatever
is within the body of
the loop of the for
loop will execute or
keep executing over
the each iteration,
once this condition
here becomes false,
then whatever is
within the body of the
loop will cease and the loop will itself
terminate as well, of course this is if we
input can put ten for
example, I is one so one is lesser or
equal to ten yes ok it's rated by one
and I don't know do whatever we would
do whatever else
we tell you to do
basically but eventually
over the course
of iterations I
will become two and
that it will become
345678910 then it
will become 11 and
11 will no longer be
less or equal to n,
so this number is
the basically the amount of repetitiveness for this loop, within the loop we shall
declare int, number
std, colon colon, cout,
and we should do this
enter and let's put a
semicolon, why not
I, dot, number
semicolon and there we go,
it's closed and let's
provide a way for the
user to actually input
something, std, colon
colon, previously of state
like let's provide a
method for user to input
something I mean methods are
something completely different in C++ we
will get to that, is just a way of my
expressions that give you a bit
confusing but just provide a way
for users to
basically just input
something so get that number and what
will happen here is that the loop will
repeat for as many times as we have
specified with the n here which way
the user basically input
it and down the loop
on every iteration of
the loop, the user
will be prompted to enter oops sorry my
apologies on every iteration of the loop
the user will be prompted to actually
enter a certain number and that number
the way for importing
that number has
been provided here,
so every time this
loop repeats the user will be prompted.
Ok please enter a number and you will
see it will be printed
out on the screen
every time we actually
input the number
depending on how
many times we have
specified as we want
the loop to repeat
itself and now we come to the point of sum
and I will show you here and demonstrate why
actually show you why we need to
initialize sum to 0, it's rather
simple, so let's use
this format here
let's just put it like this,
I'll tell you why.
Ok so sum we have
declare it here in
sum, now imagine if
we didn't know imagine if we didn't
actually initialize it to anything, what
does that mean? Well variable sum
would have been
created and it would
have occupied a certain
space in ram, so
whatever was in
that space prior to
the creation of this
variable, would
would become the content of
this variable and then when we would get
to this point here, the content of that
variable, would actually be to that
content, this number
wouldn't have been
add, so we would get
something completely
different other than the sum of numbers
that we wanted so imagine, just
imagine that you had some like an x
and some random things here and
just some random random information here
that has been I don't know perhaps the
variable from the previous program or
something like that etc, some
random value, that would have been a
problem because then we will be
calculating the sum of a certain amount
of numbers and we would have been adding
that random value to that sum, therefore
that some would not be accurate
therefore we have ensured that that
mistake will not happen by simply
initializing the sum to 0 variable sum
to 0 and therefore everything will be just
be added to 0, there
will be no third party
values that will be
added into the full
factory into our sum. Anyway, there's no
need to write it like this, this is the
long version, you can simply do this to
this, plus and there we go,
So this is basically
the same as what
we have just written,
so some equal
sum + number is the
same as sume + equals
number. Exactly you
see things just
written in a different fashion I would
always advise you to use this format as
it is, I mean it's
just shorter to write
and it's quite
easy to comprehend
and understand for anybody who knows
what they're looking at. Ok, so let's go
ahead and type in std, colon colon, cout
and some of, n, I
don't know n numbers,
I'm just placing n ok
entered numbers is
gotta love my notes.
std colon colon, endl
and semicolon, ok
sum, n, entered numbers
is and then of
course the sum and
we're gonna go and
move on into a new
line in order to make
this in order to
make this simpler so
let's go ahead and
type in return 0,
do I have it? No. 0 let's go ahead and see
what happens? what's gonna
transpire here there's gonna be an error
that's interesting that happens I wonder
what the problem is here ok there is a
semicolon my good man why are you
reporting that there is expected
semicolon before string constant, let me just
take a look at it.
CPP line 7 is this the semicolon?
certainly
looks like it. std,
cout, ok, or right,
operated here
So it says enter int n 10.
I don't know,
let's say that it's
10, and now we have
some random number that we need to
enter and this is exactly what I was
talking about, it says here enter,
you see it says enter and the number
have I initialized number to anything?
no I have
not and yet there is
this strange value here
so it's just a random thing from memory
no big deal
instead we shall change
this in order to make
it a little bit different,
we don't need to
initialize the number here because the
number will be initialized here once the
user makes an input
but we can tell the
user which number
in line do we want
him to enter, so enter,
I can't actually, it
would vary from, I wanted
to rightly first or
second, third, four,
but no, I'm gonna
place a dot there and I.
And now, we're
gonna have to take a
look at this so enter
n and then enter first number.
Ok so
that makes sense right? It says here enter
first number, let the first number be 1
we can also enter interesting numbers 2145 I
don't know 10 11 12 13 I don't know
let's add it. So the sum
of ten entered numbers
is sixty, there you go,
the program did let's see
it's indeed 60, 12459 1424 3547
50, yeap, 60 up there you go, so it is indeed 60 if you don't believe me, you can just go
ahead and calculate it yourself or use a
calculator or whatever in order to
figure it out. So
let's go ahead and
do a bit of recap,
there are some
things that I do need
to explain, for example
this one this part,
let's actually let's
just use some sort
of code here, for I
just wanna make sure
that you understand
this for loops it is very important, you
have the initializer, ups, and then you
have the separator here and then the
condition and then the increment, down
below you of course
have the body that
is the body's basically
the code that's
gonna get repeated, it will get repeated
so the initializer this is our
initializer here, the condition, this is the
condition here and you have the
increment and our
increment is here, let me
just go ahead and talk
a little bit that
about the increment, I've already explained
that whether the loop will continue or
not depends on the condition in the
center and that condition will
eventually change for false to true
because the initializer is
changing which is the integral part of
the condition, the condition is dependent
on I actually being less or equal to n, in
sense that the value of I is
continuously increasing
it is safe to
assume that at a certain
point in time I
will become greater than n and this
condition will evaluate to false
increment this last
part, it controls the
loop steps that is
in each iteration
the variable I is incremented, now in this
particular case it is incremented by one
and we could have written this in
various formats, we could have written
I equals I + one,
this was also one of
the possibilities,
I mean we wouldn't
actually change
anything and we could
have also written this,
one so you would
usually use this format if you wanted to
add a number that is greater than one
but if you just want to add one, you can
use I + + or ++ I they're all
pretty much the same, however if the
loop variable is being incremented
by one, this is a preferable
thing, let's put it like that,
keep in mind that I ++ and ++ I
is not the same in expression, but
inside the for loop it is, so if you use this an
expression like I ++, ++ I
these would be two
different things, however
if you use it in a
loop in a for loop
here it doesn't matter, it is pretty much the same,
we can also use the
control variable
I inside the loop body as I
stated in the very
beginning, in our
example, we ask the
user for example to
enter the first and then
the second and then the
third and then the four,
this is very useful
because this is increment in any way
right here and we can tell the user
actually which number
to enter, so I bet you
all farewell. I ran out
of time and I hope to
see you in the follow up tutorial.